get.siggenes                   package:maSigPro                   Documentation

Extract significant genes for sets of variables in  time series gene expression experiments

Description:

     This function creates lists of significant genes for a set of variables whose significance value 
     has been computed with the AIC.fit function

Usage:

      get.siggenes (tstep, rsq=0.7, add.IDs = FALSE, IDs = NULL, matchID.col = 1, only.names = FALSE, 
      vars = c("all","each","groups"), groups.vector = NULL, trat.repl.spots = "none", index = IDs[,(matchID.col+1)], 
      match = IDs[,matchID.col], r = 0.7)

Arguments:

     tstep: a T.fit object

     rsq:cut-off level at the R-squared value for the stepwise regression fit. Only genes with R-squared > rsq are selected.

     add.IDs: logical indicating whether to include additional gene id's in the result
    
     IDs: matrix contaning additional gene id information (required when add.IDs = TRUE)

     matchID.col: number of matching column in matrix IDs for adding genes ids

     only.names: logical. If TRUE, expression values are ommited in the results

     vars: variables for which to extract significant genes
  
     groups.vector: Required when vars = 'groups'. matrix containing normalized gene expression data. Genes must be in rows and arrays in columns

     trat.repl.spots: treatment givent to replicate spots. Possible values are 'none' and 'average'

     index, match: argument of the average.rows function to use when  trat.repl.spots = 'average'

     r: minimun pearson correlation coefficient for replicated spots profiles to be averaged.
   
Details:
     
    There are 3 possible values for the vars argument:
    'all': generates one single matrix or gene list with all significant genes
    'each': generates as many significant genes extractions as variables in the general regression model.
    Each extraction contains the significant genes for that variable 
    'groups': generates a significant genes extraction for each experimental group  
    The difference between 'each' and 'groups' is that in the first case the variables i.e. ' TreatmentA' and 
    'timexTreatmentA' will be extracted separately and in the second case jointly.

    When add.IDs = TRUE, a matrix of gene ids must be provided as argument of IDs, the matchID.col 
    column of which having same levels as in rownames(sig.profiles).

    Only names = TRUE will generate a vector of significant genes and a matrix when add.IDs= TRUE.

    When trat.repl.spots = 'average'  match and index vectors are required for the average.rows function.
    In gene expression data context, the Index vector would contain geneIDs and indicate which spots 
    are replicates. The match vector is use to match these genesIDs to rows in the significant genes 
    matrix and must have the same levels as in rownames(sig.profiles).  

    add.IDs = TRUE and trat.repl.spots = 'average' are not compatible argumet values.
    add.IDs = TRUE and only.names = TRUE are  compatible argumet values.
       
Value:

    sig.genes: Either a matrix or vector of significant genes, or a list of matrix's or vectors of 
       significant genes, depending on the function parameters.  
       each element of the list is also a list containing 
          'sig.profiles',  expression values of significant genes
          'coefficients',  regression coefficients for significant genes  
          't.score',  t.score of significant genes
          'g',  number of genes
          ... arguments passed from other functions

References:

     Conesa, A   aconesa@ivia.es
     Nueda, MJ   mj.nueda@ua.es


