see.groups                   package:maSigPro                   Documentation

Wrapping function for visualization of gene expression values of time course experiments

Description:

     This function provides visualization tools for he gene expression values in a time course 
     experiment. The function first calls the heatmap limma function for a general overview of 
     experiment results. Next a partioning of the data is generated using a clustering method.
     The results of the clustering are visualized both as gene expression profiles extended along all
     arrays in the experiment, as provided by the plot.profiles function, and as summary expression 
     profiles for  comparison among experimental groups             

Usage:

      see.genes (data, edesign = data$edesign, time.col = 1, repl.col = 2, group.cols = c(3:ncol(edesign)), 
      names.groups = colnames(edesign)[3: ncol(edesign)], cluster.data= 2, groups.vector = data$groups.vector,
      k = 9, cluster.method = "hclust", distance = "cor", agglo.method = "complete", iter.max = 500, show.fit = FALSE, 
      betas = NULL, show.lines = TRUE,  main = NULL, ...)

Arguments:

     data: either a list or  matrix containing the gene expression data, typically a get.siggnes object

     edesign: matrix of experimental design
    
     time.col: column in edesign containing time values. Default is first column

     repl.col: column in edesign containing coding for replicates arrays. Default is second column

     group.cols: columns indicating the coding for each group (treatment, tissue,...) in the experiment (see details)

     colnames.groups: names for groups

     cluster.data: Type of data used by the cluster algorith (see details)

     groups.vector: Vector indicating experimental group of each variable    

     k: number of clusters

     cluster.method: clustering method for data partioning.

     distance: Distance measurement function for when cluster.method = 'hclust'

     agglo.method: aggregation method used when cluster.method = 'hclust'
  
     iter.max: max. number of iteration when cluster.method = 'kmeans'

     show.fit: Logical indicating whether regression fit curves must be plotted
    
     betas: Required when show.fit = T. Matrix of regression coefficients. By default betas are taken from data object

     show.lines: Logical indicating whether a line must be drawn joining plotted data points for reach group

     main: title for plotting functions

     ...: further plotting arguments

    
Details:

    Data can be provided either as a single data matrix of expression values, or a 'get.siggenes' object. In the later case
    the other argument of the fuction can be taken directly from 'data'.
     
    Data clustering can be done on the basis of either the original expression values, the regression coefficients, 
    or the t.scores. In case 'data' is a 'get.siggenes' object, this is given by providing the element names of the list
    (c("sig.profiles","coefficients","t.score")) of their list position (1,2 or 3).
     
Value:

    cut: vector indicating gene partioning into clusters

    c.algo.used: clustering algorith used

    groups: groups matrix used for plotting functions


References:

     Conesa, A   aconesa@ivia.es
     Nueda, MJ   mj.nueda@ua.es


