T.fit                   package:maSigPro                   Documentation

Makes a stepwise regression fit for time series gene expression experiments

Description:

     'T.fit' selects the best regression model for each gene using stepwise regression.


Usage:
     T.fit  (data, design = data$dis, step.method = "backward",  min.obs = data$min.obs, alfa = data$Q)

Arguments:

     data: can either be a p.vector object or a matrix containing expression data with the same requirements as for
          the p.vector function 

     design: design matrix for the regression fit such as that generated by the make.design.matrix function. If data is
          a p.vector object, tthe same design matrix is used by default
    
     step.method: argument to be passed to the step function. Can be either 'backward' or 'forward'

     alfa: significance level used for variable selection in the stepwise regression

     min.obs: Genes with less than this number of true numerical values will be excluded from the analysis.
    
Details:
     
     In the maSigPro approach p.vector and T.fit are subsequent steps, meaning that significant genes are
     first selected on the basis of a general model and then the significant variables for each gene are found. 

     The step regression can be 'backward' or 'forward' indicating whether the step procedure starts from the 
     model with all or none variables. During the progress of the algorithm vars are both allowed to get in and out.
     At each step the p.value of each variable is computed and variables get in/out the model when this p.value is
     lower or higher than given threshold alfa.

Values:

    sol: Matrix for summary results of the stepwise regression. For each selected gene the following values are given:
         p.value of the regression ANOVA, R-squared, p-value of the selected variables coefficients, selected variables 
        coefficients.

    sig.profiles: expression values for the genes contained in sol. 

    coefficients: matrix containing regression coefficients for the adjusted models

    t.score: matrix containing 't.score's for the adjusted models

    vars.in: variables in the complete regression model

    G: total number of input genes

    g: number of genes taken in the regression fit 

    dat : matrix of expression value data used in the regression fit

    dis: design matrix used in the regression fit

    .... further values from input parameters

References:

     Conesa, A   aconesa@ivia.es
     Nueda, MJ   mj.nueda@ua.es


